---
title: The Organization
---

Dense Analysis is a nonprofit organization incorporated in the state of
Washington in the United States of America in 2022. Dense Analysis is composed
entirely of volunteers with experience in the IT industry, and our network of
engineers and IT professionals spans the globe.

## Organizational Structure

Dense Analysis is managed by a Board of Directors. The Board is composed of IT
professionals who each contribute unique perspectives, whilst sharing common
interests. The board is selected according to breadth of IT experience and
complementary personalities. All members of the board are elected, and members
may from time-to-time choose to elect new members of the board as they see fit,
or replace existing members according to a democratic vote.

## Board Members

### Andrew Wray - President & Treasurer

Known online by the moniker _"w0rp,"_ Andrew is an IT professional with a career
spanning three decades. Pulling from not only programming experience, but
experience in public speaking and performance, developer training, team
management, marketing, and more, Andrew serves dual functions in the
organization as President & Treasurer.

#### Function

As President, Andrew is tasked with promoting the organization, fostering its
development, overseeing future staffing requirements, forwarding its
initiatives, growing its projects, and general leadership. The Dense Analysis
President is responsible for seeing that every organization member and volunteer
is able to function to the best of their ability.

As Treasurer, Andrew is responsible for fulfilling the organization's tax
obligations, managing any future donations or other money the organization may
receive, ensuring budgets are allocated appropriately, and in general oversight
of all financial matters.

In short: Andrew dedicates his efforts to handling key organizational matters to
ensure that every Dense Analysis member and volunteer is not encumbered by legal
roadblocks, technical limitations, or any other encumbrance.

### David Berry - First Vice President

An IT professional of many years, David Berry's expertise lies primarily in
quality assurance and automation. David serves as an important sounding-board to
Andrew's vision, and helps shape the organization's roadmap for the future.

#### Function

As First Vice President, David assumes all duties of the President when he is
not able, due to severe illness or injury. In the event of the untimely loss of
the President, David will serve all functions of the President, until a new
President can be appointed.

### Georgi Angelchev - Second Vice President

Georgi serves as a primary contributor to Dense Analysis' software projects,
brand, and initiatives. Georgi pulls from past experience as an IT startup
founder and software developer to provide invaluable insight and advice on how
to run an IT business, including managing organizational documentation, social
outreach and networking, and brand image. Georgi acts as a Swiss Army knife of
IT business and fills in organizational gaps.

#### Function

As Second Vice President, Georgi assumes all duties of the President when
neither the President or Vice President are able. Georgi is firmly embedded as a
key member of the board essential to the future vision of what the organization
aims to achieve.

### Oliver Taylor-Knight - Secretary

Oliver acts as an adviser to the Dense Analysis board. Pulling from experience
in IT support, Oliver brings a human element to the board, and a much-needed
difference of perspective.

#### Function

As Secretary, Oliver acts as the organization's primary record keeper. Any and
all matters relating to the organization which require documentation are his
primary responsibility.
